# Practice_MongoDB
#### Repository created for the purpose of learning to use MongoDB
## Data Structure MongoDB
#### There are collections of data, example you can have user, post and comments collections, this are saved on their own collection. You can retreieve all the documents inside of one of these collections.<br>Each document contains one user, post comment, etc. Inside the document it looks like a JSON, but it's keep inside a bson, which is a binary JSON, and for all intent and purpuse, the document it looks like a JSON and it's ultimate what we get. Each document has it's own id property which is it's special unique Mongo ID type assign to the document by MongoDB it's self for easier identification on "_id" value.<br>Documents can have properties which are documents themselves, in those case these are call nested documents.
## Mongo management shell console:
#### To use mongo shell write mongosh on any terminal<br>To create an new document on a collection through the shell you do the following command db.books.insertOne({}), now this collection doesn't need to exist, you can just put the name of a new collection to insert a document.<br>To insert multiple document you use db.books.insertMany([{}]).<br>To find documents you use db.books.find() without a condition it prints the first 20, through the usage of it, it would iterate to the following 20 documents until there aren't any documents left on that collection.<br>Nested Documents are that contain other mongo documents, this can be declare through adding a list of objects on the creation of the object through the shell.<br>
## Queries on Mongo Shell
#### To filter you use db.books.find({author: "condition"}), it can have multiple conditions inside one object. You can also put a second argument to make it clear which fields you want to obtain in the following way db.books.find({author: "condition"}, {author: 1, title: 1}). You can also ask for all the books but only certain fields through db.books.find({}, {author: 1, title: 1}). The findOne method obtains just that one object db.books.findOne({_id_: "condition"}), if there is more then one document that fits the condition it will bring the first one.<br>Chaining method is a way to perform other task. Limit only brings a limited about of documents, count() counts the amount of documents you are bringing. One of the ones that you will probably be using is .sort({title: 1(ASC) or -1(DESC)}). You can chain multiple method such as find().sort().limit()<br><br>Operators: The operators begin with $gt(greater then) $lt(lesser then) $gte(greater then or equal) $lte(lesser then or equal) $or: and you put it at the beginning of the filter db.books.find({$or: [{rating: 7}, {rating: 9}]}).<br>In operator: $in brings the documents which fit into a list of values, db.books.find({rating: {$in: [7, 8, 9]}}).<br>Not in operator: $nin is not in, which is the contrary to the values you input, db.books.find({rating: {$nin: [7, 8, 9]}})<br>Increment operator: db.books.updateOne({...},{$inc: {"field": "amount to increment"}})<br>Decrement operator: db.books.updateOne({...},{$inc: {"field": -"amount to decrement"}})<br>Pull operator: db.books.updateOne({...},{$pull: {"field": "value to pull from the array"}})<br>Push operator:  db.books.updateOne({...},{$push: {"field": "value to push to the array"}})<br>Each operator: Allows to pull or push multiple values. db.books.updateOne({...},{$push: {"field": {$each: ["values to push to the array"]}}})<br><br>For querying Array values, db.books.find({genres: "Value to look for"}), for wanting just documents with an exact match, it's this way, db.books.find({genres: ["Value to look for"]}), it can be multiple values.<br>To look for multiple values, you use the operator $all, db.books.find({genres: {$all: ["Insert values here"]}})<br>For Queries base on nested documents, you do the following db.books.find({"reviews.name": "Value to look for"})<br>Deleting documents on a collection, you can use deleteOne or deleteMany. db.books.deleteOne({"Condition like find, recommended to just use the _id"}), same applies to deleteMany.<br><br>For update Quearies, you use the commands db.books.updateOne({_id: "insert object id for this example, through recommended."},{$set: {"Fields and values to update"}}) for many, db.books.updateMany({"Field and value to look for, not just one id or multiple of them"}, {$set: {"Field and value to change on multiple files"}})
## Installing MongoDB Driver
#### npm i mongodb --save<br>